Welcome back.
We got our tests to work and google search right now is working pretty nicely.
I'm pretty happy with it and I think we can move on.
Let's create a another script and have perhaps a more realistic or a harder function than this to test
so I'm going to just add a new file and call it script to dodge us.
And we definitely want to write some tests for it.
But for now let's just write our function and what it's going to do.
Now one of the harder tests to write and something that you might be thinking of is a synchronous test.
I mean right now you can see that with Google search we can copy this with pretty much any function
and you might see why pure functions are so good to test.
I mean you're just testing function you're just adding some random inputs and making sure that the outputs
are what they're expected.
Very nice and simple and they're all just synchronous nice tests.
But in real life we most likely have fetched calls or API calls that are a synchronous.
How do we test for those.
Well in this video let's tackle that for this exercise.
I'm going to use an API that I really really like called swampy and yep that stands for the Star Wars
API.
It's free and it's awesome.
I recommended in the other course as well.
So some people might be familiar with it but yeah it's great.
You can see here that you can request planets you can request people you can request star ships all
from Star Wars yeah pretty awesome using the Star Wars API you can see that this is the end point that
we can hit to get the J Sam response let's create a nice little function for us to use that we can test
now fetch in node won't work because if you remember Fetch is something that's implemented by the browser
and it's on the window object but in node there's no such thing as a window object so there's no window
dot fetch for that we need to install something called
Node fetch and there's a few other libraries that you can use you can do fetch calls from node but let's
just stick with this on for now this way we can now have fetch in node and again we import it with the
common J.S. way because imports and exports are not available yet in node and then just import node
fetch.
All right and in here let's do a concert get people from Star Wars and let's say this is going to receive
the fetch.
Remember we're doing a bit of dependency injection here so that we can test them we can keep this nice
and easy to test as possible.
And here we can say that we're going to return such and I know I know this is a little bit redundant
because we could just not have an input and half fetch but it's just it shows I think Dependency Injection
really well and this isn't something that you necessarily always need to do but for this purposes I
think it's a good way for you to get familiar with dependency injection and here we're going to have
the Star Wars API.
Let's go back to what they had
and let's copy this and say that we want to request the people API.
And if you remember we always need to do our classic DOD then
response and then run the Jason method on the response and then finally we have our data which will
be the people that it returns.
So let's say in here we're just going to return an object that has a count because if we go to people
over here because we want to get all the characters we get a count variable of all the characters in
the API so let's do that and we'll say count and actually this should be Dad I don't count and then
we'll do results that will just have the data dot results which will have all the people in an array
and each person in an object.
All right let's save that.
And I want to make sure this works so we'll just do console dialogue get people and pass in the first
function to it going to save.
And let's just run node.
Let me clear this for now and actually just because this is a synchronous nicer way of doing this is
just in here.
Console logging the data let's save and run NPM script to dodge.
Yes and we have to wait a bit.
But you see over here that.
All right.
We got all the characters with count to seven and we got Luke Skywalker.
What else we got see three P.O. r2 d2 all the main cats.
Awesome.
This is working.
And you know what.
While we're at it just for fun since this is using a promise let's also add the async await version
of the code
and let's just remove the call and just call say that get people is going to use the async await.
So that means in front of the function we're going to do async and that we can use the awake key word
so we can just say const get request equals await the first call and now we can say that the const data
again equals a weight
get request dad Jason.
And now we can remove the dog then and keep everything the way we had it.
Let me add the semicolons and let's just make the smaller so you can see better
and we can move this
on this line you can decide for yourself what looks cleaner but let's test out to this as well to make
sure that it works.
So get people and we'll add fetch going to save and run NPM.
Whoops.
Not there.
Run in here NPM.
Run.
No node script to dodge.
Yes we wait a bit and there you go.
Everything is working.
I don't know why I decided to show that in the test video but I'm sure somebody out there is gonna find
this useful to compare promises and async a little bit of a tangent but let's get back on track here.
Let's actually start writing tests for our async code.
Again the first thing we're gonna do and I'm going to remove the get people and console log from here.
Let's save
and I'm going to create a new file.
Call it script to dot test dot J.S.
and within here we want to do a few things.
First we want to use the fetch function.
So we need the require
node.
Fetch again because we have used dependency injection and we need the parameter fetch for the get people
and then we also need the.
Function from the swap the API that returns the get people.
For now let's just say require a script to dodge us.
We don't need the j s bots remember because this isn't node package.
We need to actually give it the path all right.
So let's export the function let's just export both of these for now we'll say module dot exports and
we export them in an object we'll say get people and instead of doing get people get people again shorthand
with yes S6 is to just to get people and get people promise.
Which which is the same thing as get people semicolon get people property and value property and value.
All right.
So now within here we'll have the we'll have access to our functions both of them let's take a break
and in the next video we're going to finish up this test.
I'll see in that one by.